[MUSIC]
Welcome, exciting video.
You can see we've got our
animated timer that says how much
time is left on the level.
Fox, don't get down there yet.
And we want to have when the fox
reaches the end of the timer,
we print out a debug message that says
that we've reached the end of our timer.
So let's jump in and get started.
If you jump over to canvas, open that
up so we can see what's going on.
Right click, go down to UI, you see we
have an option here which is slider.
Click on that and a slider will
appear in the middle of the screen.
You can hit W, drag it up to the top
right, where I think I'll put mine.
We can stop doing some fiddling with it,
which is gonna be awesome.
Okay, so first of all, I'll just
make it a little bit bigger for now.
So in the Rect Transform,
I'll click on my scale,
3 and, well, that's 33, Rect 3 and 3.
I put three on zed, not that it does
anything, but I just like that symmetry.
Move it a little bit to the left,
make sure that it's gonna fit
within our safe zone, yes.
It's got a nice big timer
on the screen there.
Pretty obvious what's going on with it.
Okay and a few things we can play around
with here, pretty similar to buttons,
we've got the color,
highlighted color, etc.
If you go down and have a look at value
down there, if you slide that right and
left you can see that the handle is
moving to the right and to the left.
We can switch the direction to make it
right to left instead of left to right,
and then you can see it goes backwards.
I'm gonna do it that way, just because
that's the same way that our attackers
are coming in from off the screen.
And heading to the left.
So kind of feels natural for them to be
left, left, left, left, left, left and
then when we get to here,
we've reached the end.
We can also change the values, so
we can have it from 0 to 1, so
it's a, oops, accidentally clicked there.
From 0 to 1, if we wanna have it
a percentage of 1, we can have 0 to 100,
for example.
We can click on the whole numbers so
then like click, click, click,
along the whole numbers here,
so a few things we can do.
I'll just leave it at 1 for now, unless we
feel we want to change it to 100 later on
to make it feel more like a percentage.
Also, if you go into the hierarchy,
you can see that the slider came in with
background, fill area and
handle slide area.
If you open those up, then we have
a little bit more control over what it is
that we can do with each of these things.
And one thing we can do
is change the handle.
At the moment,
you see the Source Image is Knob.
I can change that Source Image to,
for example, our star.
And now you can see,
I'll zoom in a bit, you can see
that the little icon that's gonna go from
left to right or right to left for us.
I'm just gonna click back on the slider.
And then twiddle the value.
It's gonna go along like that, very cool.
So you've got something that's
a little bit more of an icon so
the player can immediately
see what's happening.
Star doesn't quite make sense, I think.
So if I go back to Handle,
change it from star.
I'm gonna change it to,
I think I'll change it to the fox.
If I can find one of the foxes.
Just the fox running.
There we go.
Fox running, actually that was fox jump,
but it looks fine nonetheless.
Okay and then I can click, while I'm
clicked on my handle still, I can scale.
So I can change scale here, I'll just
click on my R tool and scale that up.
Up up up and then W tool,
move it up a little bit as well, So
that we have a nice big
representation that can move along,
clicking on slider, that can move
along as our slider moves along.
I'm going to make it even clearer what's
going on here by clicking on the fill
area, or underneath fill area,
change the color to yellow.
So you can see,
as we are progressing along, that it is
going to go from yellow to something.
If I go to background and click on
the color underneath background and
change it to a darker blue gray thing.
Yeah.
There we go, okay.
I want it a little bit more blue I think.
There we go.
Now when I slide my slider,
you can see it's progressing
from yellow along the blue, and
it's represented by the fox.
Now we're gonna do something that I only
just figured out when I was getting ready
to film this video.
I though, you know,
I'm gonna try something here,
I'm gonna try something crazy.
And I figured it out.
So if I can figure it out,
anyone can figure it out.
Therefore, I've got a challenge for you.
And that's to animate your slider handle.
What?
You might be asking, or you might not.
You might say, that's easy, Rick.
But what I mean is this fox here.
I want this fox to look like
it is running or walking.
So try to figure out how
to add an animated attacker
as the progress slider handle instead of
the circle that we have right there now.
And then, of course,
share what you come up with,
particularly if you come up with
something nifty that you're happy with.
So jump in, see if you can
figure out how to do that, and
I'll see you back here when you're done.
Right, so let's click on handle.
And a few things should be starting
to look really familiar in here.
We've got an image.
We've got a renderer.
What do we need to add to animate stuff?
We need to add an animator.
Animator, if we click on that, great.
Now we can see, while clicked on
the handle, we've got our animation and
our animator, currently empty.
We'll click Create into our Assets,
Animations, Attackers.
There's not really any of this, so we'll
create a new folder, which I'll call UI.
And within UI I will place
in my slider handle Fox Run.
I think it's going to be
a run that I'm using.
So we have that there now,
we need to add some frames.
So let us find our sprites,
fox, and I've got fox running.
Walking might be a little bit better,
but I've got running in there.
I've sliced it up.
So if you want to do walking or
something else, one of the creatures,
then, please, go ahead and
do something cool.
Change the samples to 24.
Now, if I click play,
look at him, up there.
He's running.
That's so cool.
I'm gonna change it to 12,
to make it kind of a slow amble, [SOUND].
Okay, that's looking pretty good just so
it doesn't look exactly like
the creatures I got in the level itself.
I want to have them look a little bit
different, and we will see what if I
change, I'll click on handle and
then we've got image and then color.
If I change the color a little bit more
yellowy so it matches the the slider bar.
Okay, and then click play.
That yellow stays there.
Okay, yeah, it's looking pretty good.
Again just so people don't get confused,
why is there a fox running up
in the very top lane up there?
It's not a lane.
It's the UI.
Okay, I like it.
I think it's feeling good.
Now let's give some
functionality to our slider.
So we're gonna add it right on
the slider if we find our scripts.
And add ourselves a new,
give myself a bit more space here.
Have myself right-click,
create a C# script.
This we will call Game Timer.
I nearly called it Slider,
but this is our Game Timer.
Let's open that up.
Actually, you know what, before we do
that, let's drag it onto Slider just so
later on I'm not sitting there saying,
why does this not work?
It's cuz you didn't add it to
the place it needs to be, Rick.
That's probably why.
So we'll drag game timer onto Slider.
There we go, now I'll open it up.
I'm not going to need Start,
let's get rid of that.
What I do need to start off with is
an amount of time for the level.
So, it's serialize field, we'll make it
a float, cuz it's gonna be ticking away.
I will call this levelTime,
levelTime, I think.
And I'll initialize that at how
long do we want for our level.
You know while I'm just testing this out,
I'm going to make it just 10.
Cause that will make it 10 seconds.
How do I know it's seconds?
Well I know that this is going to be
calculated, the calculations we'll do
will relate to seconds but how do I
know it's seconds in a month's time?
Well I could say level of
time in seconds here or
we could do something that I don't think
we've done yet and that is a Tooltip.
And let me just show you very briefly the
documentation for this TooltipAttribute.
Sometimes you can get some clues by
going into the code, here it is.
This is what it's going to look like, so
I'm going to highlight this you don't
need to do this but you can if you wish.
And I'm going to copy that,
jump back over into my script,
my game timer script, paste that in and
you can see the structure.
We put square brackets and
then ToolTip and
then in quotation marks we say
what the ToolTip is gonna be.
And this will be our level
timer in SECONDS, nice and big.
And then no semicolon and then whatever
it is that we're putting our Tooltip
on to and then that whole statement
is going to end at the semicolon.
And I saved that up just to make that
works and show you what it looks like.
So back over into Unity,
wait for it to do its compiling.
Now when I go and mouse-over game timer
level time, it's currently set at ten.
Now what does ten mean?
Mouse-over it, and
it'll say our level timer in seconds.
That's how you can create
tool tips to give yourself or
anyone else on your team a lot more
information about what's going on.
Okay, that is looking sharp.
Okay, the first thing we want to do
is we want to tell our slider to have
a particular value.
And we want value of the slider to be
equal to how much time has elapsed in
seconds as a proportion of
our total amount of time.
So if one second has
elapsed on our timer and
we want our game level timer,
our level timer, to be ten seconds.
One second's elapsed then.
It should be, this indicator
should be 10% of the way along.
So the way that we're gonna do that
is by getting the slider component.
Get component, Slider.
And then parentheses dot.
And you can see we've got the red squiggly
line which means that we're not using
the namespace.
You can mouse over there.
We forgot the namespace.
Highlight this one here.
You're gonna copy using UnityEngine,
Paste, .UI.
Okay, so now when we come down here and
hit our dot, you can see options.
We're looking for value.
So what is the value of this
slider right at the moment?
The value of the slider should
be Time.timeSinceLevelLoad
is this call thing that we can call
upon here, timeSinceLevelLoad.
And that's gonna be
divided by levelTime; so
levelTime is how much time we said,
10 seconds.
timeSinceLevelLoad, this
is gonna be in seconds.
So, five seconds has gone by.
Five divided by ten is what?
It's gonna be 0.5 and
then if we were to go back to our slider.
And where is our slider?
Just here slider.
Slider, and if we were to set this 0.5,
then it's gonna look like it's
halfway through our loading.
Which is exactly what we want.
5 seconds, half way to 10.
Now let's figure out what we wanna
do when the timer has finished.
Again we'll be doing this on update,
so make ourselves a bool, so
it's either half finished or we have not.
And the bool would be
called timer finished,
and that would be
time.time since level load.
Is greater than or equal to what?
Time since level load is
greater than level time.
So the first one we're just representing
it on the slider and the next one we're
calculating have we actually had more
time than we wanted to have in our level.
So that our bool, and
then if timerFinished.
And we've just created timerFinished.
Then what do we want to do?
Well, for now we're just gonna put in
a debug.Log and what was saying here?
Level timer expired!
Okay, just to make sure this all works.
So save that up.
We're looking for
a couple of things in here.
We're looking that our slider moves
appropriately, and we're looking that,
after ten seconds,
that our console prints that message out.
Now I'm gonna get my lizard, and
get my lizard way back there so
we don't accidentally lose
the game before we should.
Click on Play, We'll see if
we've got this all buttoned up.
Actually we're gonna place down
a bunch of cactuses, cacti.
Well, gee, that fox gets thrown quickly,
doesn't it?
Here we go.
This is moving.
So that's great.
Moving, moving, moving, and then bump.
Do we get a message in our
console level timer expired?
Fantastic, okay.
So we've completed our task of making our
slider move to show that there's time for
our level.
We've successfully logged
that up to the console.
So now in the next video, we're gonna
be in a position to do something
when our level finishes its timer.
So great work, and
I'll see you in the next video.